README.md, before:

# Git Commit Message Generator Agent

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

An AI-powered CLI tool that helps generate clear, concise, and conventional commit messages based on your git changes.

## ✨ Features

- 🤖 **AI-Powered** - Uses advanced language models to understand code changes
- 📝 **Conventional Commits** - Follows the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification
- 🎛️ **Configurable** - Customize behavior through YAML/JSON configuration
- 🔍 **Smart Analysis** - Analyzes git diffs to understand changes in context
- 🎨 **Beautiful Output** - Rich terminal formatting with syntax highlighting
- 🔌 **Extensible** - Easy to add custom commit types and templates
- 🧪 **Type Hints** - Full type annotations for better development experience
- 🚀 **Fast & Lightweight** - Minimal dependencies, optimized for performance

## 📦 Installation

### Using pip

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/adraynrion/commit-message-generator-agent.git
```

### Development Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/adraynrion/commit-message-generator-agent.git
cd commit-message-generator-agent
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install in development mode with all dependencies:
```bash
pip install -e '.[dev]'
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Initialize Configuration** (optional):
```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/commit-msg-gen
cp commit_message_generator/default_config.yaml ~/.config/commit-msg-gen/config.yaml
# Edit the config file as needed
```

2. **Set up your OpenAI API key** (required):
```bash
echo 'OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key-here' > .env
```
Or add it to your environment variables.

3. **Generate a commit message** for your staged changes:
```bash
# Stage your changes
git add .

# Generate and review the commit message
commit-msg-gen generate
```

## 🛠️ Configuration

Create a `config.yaml` file in one of these locations:

1. `./config.yaml` (current directory)
2. `~/.config/commit-msg-gen/config.yaml` (user config)
3. `/etc/commit-msg-gen/config.yaml` (system config)

Example configuration (see [default_config.yaml](commit_message_generator/default_config.yaml) for all options):

```yaml
# AI model configuration
ai:
  model_name: "gpt-4o-mini"
  temperature: 0.3
  max_tokens: 500
  max_attempts: 3

# Commit message settings
commit:
  max_line_length: 70
```

## 📝 Usage

```bash
# Generate a commit message for staged changes
commit-msg-gen generate

# Specify a ticket number
commit-msg-gen generate --ticket ABC-123

# Use a specific commit type and severity
commit-msg-gen generate --type FEATURE --severity MAJOR

# Generate from a specific git repository
commit-msg-gen generate --repo /path/to/repo

# Dry run (don't actually commit)
commit-msg-gen generate --dry-run

# Use a specific configuration file
commit-msg-gen generate --config ./custom-config.yaml

# Show help
commit-msg-gen --help
```

## 🔌 Build

### Prerequisites

1. Install Ubuntu dependencies :
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y \
    build-essential \
    libffi-dev \
    libssl-dev \
    zlib1g-dev \
    liblzma-dev \
    libbz2-dev \
    libreadline-dev \
    libsqlite3-dev \
    libncursesw5-dev \
    tk-dev \
    libgdbm-dev \
    libc6-dev \
    libgdbm-compat-dev
```

2. Use pyenv and install python 3.11 :
```bash
pyenv install 3.11.9
pyenv global 3.11.9
```

3. Generate venv and install dependencies :
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
```

4. Build the CLI using PyInstaller:
```bash
pyinstaller commit_message_generator.spec
```

This will create a standalone executable in the `dist` directory.

## 🔌 API

You can also use the generator programmatically:

```python
from commit_message_generator import CommitMessageGenerator, CommitContext

# Initialize the generator
generator = CommitMessageGenerator()

# Generate a commit message
commit_message = await generator.generate_commit_message(
  diff="""diff --git a/file.txt b/file.txt
  index 1234567..89abcde 100644
  --- a/file.txt
  +++ b/file.txt
  @@ -1 +1,2 @@
    Hello, world!
  +This is a new line.""",
  ticket="ABC-123",
  context=CommitContext(
    branch_name="feature/ABC-123-new-feature",
    related_issues=["#42"]
  )
)

print(commit_message)
```

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
pytest tests/
```

Run with coverage:

```bash
pytest --cov=commit_message_generator --cov-report=term-missing tests/
```

## 🛠️ Code Quality

We use several tools to maintain code quality.

1. **Remove unused imports**:
```bash
pycln . --config pyproject.toml -a
```

2. **Sort imports**:
```bash
isort .
```

3. **Format code with Black**:
```bash
black .
```

4. **Format docstrings**:
```bash
docformatter --in-place --recursive .
```

5. **Add type annotations** (review changes carefully):
```bash
autotyping "commit_message_generator" --safe
autotyping "tests" --safe
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
- [OpenAI](https://openai.com/)
- [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)
- [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/)
- [Rich](https://github.com/Textualize/rich)

Commit message:

IMPROVE/MAJOR: GM-86c3x6t2z - update git utils and configuration details
Refactored git utility functions for enhanced clarity and reliability.
Updated README to include new configuration options and improved clarity.
Changed ticket format validation to accommodate new pattern.
Enhanced logging setup for better verbosity control.

README.md, after:

# Git Commit Message Generator Agent

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

An AI-powered CLI tool that helps generate clear, concise, and conventional commit messages based on your git changes.

## ✨ Features

- 🤖 **AI-Powered** - Uses advanced language models to understand code changes
- 📝 **Conventional Commits** - Follows the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification
- 🎛️ **Configurable** - Customize behavior through YAML/JSON configuration
- 🔍 **Smart Analysis** - Analyzes git diffs to understand changes in context
- 🎨 **Beautiful Output** - Rich terminal formatting with syntax highlighting
- 🔌 **Extensible** - Easy to add custom commit types and templates
- 🧪 **Type Hints** - Full type annotations for better development experience
- 🚀 **Fast & Lightweight** - Minimal dependencies, optimized for performance

## 📦 Installation

### Using pip

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/adraynrion/commit-message-generator-agent.git
```

### Development Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/adraynrion/commit-message-generator-agent.git
cd commit-message-generator-agent
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install in development mode with all dependencies:
```bash
pip install -e '.[dev]'
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Initialize Configuration** (optional):
```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/commit-msg-gen
cp commit_message_generator/default_config.yaml ~/.config/commit-msg-gen/config.yaml
# Edit the config file as needed
```

2. **Set up your OpenAI API key** (required):
```bash
echo 'OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key-here' > .env
```
Or add it to your environment variables.

3. **Generate a commit message** for your staged changes:
```bash
# Stage your changes
git add .

# Generate and review the commit message
commit-msg-gen generate
```

## 🛠️ Configuration

Create a `config.yaml` file in one of these locations:

1. `./config.yaml` (current directory)
2. `~/.config/commit-msg-gen/config.yaml` (user config)
3. `/etc/commit-msg-gen/config.yaml` (system config)

Example configuration (see [default_config.yaml](commit_message_generator/default_config.yaml) for all options):

```yaml
# AI model configuration
ai:
  model_name: "gpt-4o-mini"  # or "gpt-3.5-turbo" for faster/cheaper results
  temperature: 0.3  # 0.0 to 2.0, higher is more creative/random
  max_tokens: 500   # Maximum length of the generated message
  top_p: 1.0        # Nucleus sampling parameter (0.0 to 1.0)
  max_attempts: 3   # Maximum number of attempts to generate a valid commit message

# Commit message settings
commit:
  max_line_length: 70  # Wrap commit message at this length

# Logging configuration
logging:
  level: "INFO"  # DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL
  format: "%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s"
  file: "commit_gen.log"  # Leave empty to log to console only

# Optional: Langfuse configuration for tracing and observability
langfuse:
  enabled: false  # Set to true to enable Langfuse tracing
  public_key: ""
  secret_key: ""
  host: "https://cloud.langfuse.com"
```

## 📝 Usage

```bash
# Generate a commit message for staged changes
commit-msg-gen generate

# Specify a ticket number
commit-msg-gen generate --ticket AB-1234

# Enable verbose output
commit-msg-gen generate --verbose

# Show help
commit-msg-gen --help
```

## 🔌 Build

### Prerequisites

1. Install Ubuntu dependencies :
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y \
    build-essential \
    libffi-dev \
    libssl-dev \
    zlib1g-dev \
    liblzma-dev \
    libbz2-dev \
    libreadline-dev \
    libsqlite3-dev \
    libncursesw5-dev \
    tk-dev \
    libgdbm-dev \
    libc6-dev \
    libgdbm-compat-dev
```

2. Use pyenv and install python 3.11 :
```bash
pyenv install 3.11.9
pyenv global 3.11.9
```

3. Generate venv and install dependencies :
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e .
```

4. Build the CLI using PyInstaller:
```bash
pyinstaller commit_message_generator.spec
```

This will create a standalone executable in the `dist` directory.

## 🔌 API

You can also use the generator programmatically:

```python
from commit_message_generator import CommitMessageGenerator, CommitContext

# Initialize the generator
generator = CommitMessageGenerator()

# Generate a commit message
commit_message = await generator.generate_commit_message(
  diff="""diff --git a/file.txt b/file.txt
  index 1234567..89abcde 100644
  --- a/file.txt
  +++ b/file.txt
  @@ -1 +1,2 @@
    Hello, world!
  +This is a new line.""",
  ticket="ABC-123",
  context=CommitContext(
    branch_name="feature/ABC-123-new-feature",
    related_issues=["#42"]
  )
)

print(commit_message)
```

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
pytest tests/
```

Run with coverage:

```bash
pytest --cov=commit_message_generator --cov-report=term-missing tests/
```

## 🛠️ Code Quality

We use several tools to maintain code quality.

1. **Remove unused imports**:
```bash
pycln . --config pyproject.toml -a
```

2. **Sort imports**:
```bash
isort .
```

3. **Format code with Black**:
```bash
black .
```

4. **Format docstrings**:
```bash
docformatter --in-place --recursive .
```

5. **Add type annotations** (review changes carefully):
```bash
autotyping "commit_message_generator" --safe
autotyping "tests" --safe
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
- [OpenAI](https://openai.com/)
- [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)
- [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/)
- [Rich](https://github.com/Textualize/rich)
